---
title: WebVTT 0.4&#58; WebVTT on the Internets
layout: post
date: 2012-11-26 23:10:00
tags: [open-source, osd600]
---
### First Roadblock Unblocked
In class today, we talked about my weird problem with the test file that was checked out with
changes. Git needs to specifically be told that some files that
have CRLF line endings should keep those endings. You can do this through the
[.gitattributes](https://github.com/humphd/webvtt/blob/seneca/.gitattributes)
file. I quickly wrote up a change and pushed it up. Problem be gone!

### A Web Precense
I spent the evening taking a look at GitHub Pages. I've used GitHub Pages before;
in fact, this website is hosted by GitHub using Pages. You can see the source for it
[here](https://github.com/daliuss/daliuss.github.com). There are two ways to use
GitHub pages: automatically using templates provided by GitHub and manually by pushing
files to the <code>gh-pages</code> branch (if a project page) or the master branch of 
a repository called your_gh_username.github.com (for a user page, which my site would be
considered). The manual method requires a lot more work and templating. For our purposes,
I think we just need a single page with a bunch of information, like how many different
GitHub Page sites seem to look. If we need something a bit more complex, I'm pretty sure
there are themes written for [Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll), the static site
generator that powers GitHub Pages. For more information on GitHub pages, you can check
out the [Pages Help](https://help.github.com/categories/20/articles) section on GitHub.
I'd also recommend checking out the Jekyll gem linked above.

One great thing about Jekyll and GitHub Pages is that you can write all of your content in
Markdown. I'm writing this blog post in Markdown right now and it's pretty fantastic. If
you don't know Markdown yet, check out [the short documentation](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)
on its site.

I'm actually a bit disappointed in how dumbed down GitHub Pages becomes if you use the Automatic
Page Generator. I used the generator to see what it was all about. The repository can be found
[here](https://github.com/daliuss/webvtt/tree/gh-pages). The actual data for the page is stored
in a file called <code>params.json</code> which means that the only way to edit the pages
without manually typing out newline characters is by using the web interface provided by GitHub.
Boo-urns!

Anyhoo, I'm going to work on making that page look all nice for Thursday, where I'm hoping to get some feedback
from the rest of the class. I'm sure that a single page will be sufficient, with links to additional resources.
A project like [Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/) has a quite complex, multi-page site that isn't
possible with the Automatic Page Generator (as far as I know). If this is more of what we want (a complex site where all the official
documentation for our library would live) vs what I'll be initially working on (a landing site with basic information
on how to get started and where to go for additional information) then we should discuss that in class.
